SPEAKER 1: I think, at
first, it's always, actually,
who are you and why?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
That's good.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, OK.
ERIC BIDELMAN: No, please.
SPEAKER 2: I'm
[? Venam Rada, ?] affectionately
known as V, like the movie.
SPEAKER 1: It's easier to say.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
Also "V for Vendetta."
ERIC BIDELMAN: Oh.
SPEAKER 3: Oh.
SPEAKER 1: That's a good
name for [INAUDIBLE]..
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 2: Power play.
No.
[LAUGHTER]
But yeah.
I'm a product manager in the
Chrome App platform team.
Work on Lighthouse,
Speed Metrics.
Just trying to, you
know, make the web fast.
SPEAKER 1: All right.
That's good.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Nice.
And I'm Eric Bidelman.
I actually work with you guys.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 3: Everyone we've
interviewed, we work with.
You don't need to say that.
[LAUGHTER]
ERIC BIDELMAN: Just trying
to make everything clear.
SPEAKER 3: Look, there's a
certain amount of, you know,
theater here.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
SPEAKER 3: We're sort of
pretending we don't know
all of the content already.
Also, have you ever
done video before?
[LAUGHTER]
ERIC BIDELMAN: No.
SPEAKER 3: This is how it works.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER 1: So you have
this really lame thing
that you developed
and that you PM.
What is it?
SPEAKER 3: Yeah,
what's Lighthouse?
What does it do?
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
Talk about it.
Go.
SPEAKER 2: Sure.
I can--
[LAUGHTER]
ERIC BIDELMAN: It's
your product, V.
SPEAKER 2: Sure.
So Lighthouse is
a developer tool.
Anyone can run it.
And it basically gives
you a personalized report
over your website across
five different categories--
progressive web
app, performance,
accessibility, developer
best practices, and SEO.
SPEAKER 1: You've
got that memorized.
That's pretty bad.
That's pretty badass.
SPEAKER 2: I'm a PM.
I pitch this every day.
SPEAKER 1: I would
have been able to say
progressive and
accessibility, and then I
was like, wow,
that's all I know.
SPEAKER 3: So who would
run this and when?
What's the--
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
So we really think it's
for any developer that's
building a website.
And we think it's really
helpful because, you know,
there's so much advice
that Google and other blogs
give out, in terms of,
what are you supposed
to do to build a good website?
And our mission is really
to try to consolidate
all that together in one place.
So you can just run one tool.
It tells you exactly
what you need to do,
and then you're just done.
SPEAKER 1: And we have it
in DevTools now, right?
SPEAKER 2: Yes, we do.
You can run it on
the Audits panel.
SPEAKER 1: The Audits panel.
ERIC BIDELMAN: One could say
it's a guiding light for web
developers to follow.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, wow.
Look how the metaphor works out.
ERIC BIDELMAN: See
what I did there?
I'll be dropping those all day.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 3: So give an
example of one of the things
that Lighthouse is going to tell
me I'm doing right or wrong.
What's the--
SPEAKER 2: Sure.
So for example, in the
performance section,
it can tell you if you've
optimized your images properly,
if you need to--
SPEAKER 1: Which
lots of people don't.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
It's a very easy
win that you can
get-- that you can do
in order to improve
the site of your performance.
With PWA, it can
tell you if you have
a service worker installed,
errors in your manifest files.
SPEAKER 1: Jake is happy.
SPEAKER 3: Well, what I
actually want is, can we--
you know how, when
anyone mentions Intel,
it has to cut to
the little logo--
[VOCALIZING]
What do we have to do to
get one for Service Worker?
SPEAKER 1: Where your
face shows up and goes--
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 3: As it zooms
towards the camera.
Yeah.
Can we make that happen?
Can we do that in post?
We'll do that in post.
SPEAKER 2: But yeah.
I mean, there's a whole bunch
of things Lighthouse can tell
you-- performance, images,
amongst many other things--
PWA, service workers.
SPEAKER 1: So we
are out of jobs,
basically, is what
you're telling us.
SPEAKER 3: Yeah, that's true.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
Yes.
That was the goal
all along, actually.
SPEAKER 1: That hurt.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: All right.
SPEAKER 2: Our key success
metric is, do Surmat and Jake
have a job?
No.
Yes, success rate.
SPEAKER 1: .com.
Do Surmat and Jake
still have a job .com.
SPEAKER 3: So wait, what
would we do instead?
What is our backup?
SPEAKER 1: Well, I
have [INAUDIBLE],, mate.
[SIGHS]
SPEAKER 3: Oh, yeah.
And now the Service
Worker thing's done.
ERIC BIDELMAN: What's
next after Service Worker?
Everybody's shipping now?
SPEAKER 3: We do
background fact check.
I've got stuff on
the backburner.
ERIC BIDELMAN: All right.
There's peripheral APIs.
All right.
SPEAKER 3: I might be OK.
OK.
But you know, solving
people's performance problems.
Is it doing-- is it load
time performance, is it
runtime performance, or both?
SPEAKER 2: I think
our goal is both.
Ultimately, we want to be
the most comprehensive tool
possible.
And we actually
added a whole bunch
of new loading-focused
audits this year.
There's a talk that Addie and
Eva gave at I/O this year,
so if you're interested in--
SPEAKER 1: Talking to her later.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: She's going to
tell us more about that.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
So you can learn more from her.
SPEAKER 3: Yeah.
Don't [INAUDIBLE].
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 1: Yep.
Already know that.
Sorry.
SPEAKER 3: So is Lighthouse
something that developers
are going to have to run
manually whenever they want,
or is there something--
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 3: --is there ways they
can put it in their tool chain?
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
Yes.
So you can run it
manually through DevTools
as we talked about.
There's also a standalone Chrome
extension and an npm module,
for those of us who like running
things on the command line.
But actually, at
I/O this year, we're
announcing an API, which
people can use to automate--
SPEAKER 1: Lighthouse
as a service.
ERIC BIDELMAN:
Lighthouse as a service.
SPEAKER 2: LaaS.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Lassie.
SPEAKER 1: Bam.
SPEAKER 2: Like Lassie?
Like the White House dog.
ERIC BIDELMAN:
Yeah, like the dog.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, I thought,
like, mango lassi.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Oh, that, too.
That's delicious.
SPEAKER 2: That, too, yes.
If you want to drink
it or adore it.
SPEAKER 1: You can put a
straw in the Lighthouse.
ERIC BIDELMAN: With
Lassie as a service.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 2: Lassie as a service.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Drink up.
SPEAKER 2: But yeah,
so you can use the API
and integrate it into
your CI workflow.
There's actually-- one of
the partners we worked with
on the API, Duda--
actually named after the Dude
in "Big Lebowski," funny enough.
SPEAKER 1: So many references.
This is on fire.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
So Duda actually integrated
it into their Jenkins
continuous integration pipeline.
We're going to show off
that demo at I/O, as well.
SPEAKER 1: So at the
state of the union,
they said they're looking
into how they can--
instead of just, you use
AMP, therefore you get batch,
they're like, you do
good in performance,
therefore, you get a
good rating on search.
Does it mean that, if I get
a good score in Lighthouse,
I can be pretty confident that
I will do well in whatever they
come up with, as well?
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
So the details of the exact
criteria, we're still--
SPEAKER 1: It's all in flux.
SPEAKER 2: --working
on figuring out.
Exactly.
But what we're trying to do,
and make sure, with our criteria
is whatever metrics that we
tell developers to optimize for,
that there is a way to
measure it in the lab
and there's a way to
measure it in the wild.
SPEAKER 1: Well,
that sounds good.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
And then, in the
lab, obviously, we're
going to make sure that tools,
like Lighthouse, are exposing
those metrics, as well.
So yes.
Long answer to your question.
SPEAKER 1: No.
I mean, that's good.
Because then it just means--
you say you have an npm
module, we have it in DevTools.
That means I can run it locally,
and then I can put it on my CI,
as well.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: And I can--
SPEAKER 2: You want to
test the public version--
SPEAKER 1: Reject the PR if
somebody does stupid things.
ERIC BIDELMAN: And you
can use the Lighthouse API
if you want to
run scale, and you
don't have to install anything,
and just get JSON results.
SPEAKER 2: Don't have to
keep your own machines,
try anything like that.
SPEAKER 1: I could
do this for a living.
ERIC BIDELMAN: You
basically could.
SPEAKER 3: So how quickly do
the rules in Lighthouse develop?
If I work really hard, get my
score of 100 on Lighthouse,
am I going to check back next
week, and it's going to be 50?
SPEAKER 2: So we try
to make sure things
like this don't happen.
But we also want to make
sure that it's comprehensive,
and we keep up to date with
the current state of the union.
So I don't have,
like, an exact, we
add one new audit every month.
But we try to make sure that
we tackle different parts
of the performance experience.
So we've spent a ton
of time on performance,
and we launched search engine
optimization audits this year.
And our next focus is going to
be on user experience audits,
especially getting the forms.
How do you make a really
good form experience, which
is really important
to a lot of folks who
have e-commerce stores, and they
want to convert a lot of users,
make a lot of money.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, that sounds good.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
We have the Perth sandbox
over at the sandbox area,
and people can come up
and try Lighthouse, right?
They can enter the
URL on the tool.
SPEAKER 1: On the
actual Lighthouse.
ERIC BIDELMAN: On the real
Lighthouse we have here.
It's incredible.
SPEAKER 3: This video is going
out after I/O, so you're not--
pitching that is useless.
[LAUGHTER]
This is not live.
ERIC BIDELMAN: I've been very
pleased to see all the score.
The accessibly scores
are actually pretty high.
And SEO scores are
really high, too.
So people care about
accessibility and SEO.
SPEAKER 3: That's good to hear.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Score 90-plus.
So we're doing really well.
SPEAKER 1: They're just testing
the same site over and over.
ERIC BIDELMAN: That's true.
Example.com.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 1: Doing well.
So what have you
been doing, then?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
I've been working on
Puppeteer, and working
with Headless Chrome.
I got really excited about
just controlling Chrome.
SPEAKER 1: Right.
That's two things.
ERIC BIDELMAN: OK.
Let's parse that out.
SPEAKER 3: Yes.
ERIC BIDELMAN: All right.
Headless Chrome.
So Headless Chrome, I
think we shipped it, maybe,
Chrome 59 last year.
Basically run Chrome
without a window, right?
Headless mode.
Headful mode, headless mode.
SPEAKER 1: So like
what Phantom--
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: --used to be.
Phantom JS.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
So the cool thing about this is
it's Blink, it's Chrome, right?
It stays up to
date with the web.
So you no longer have to--
SPEAKER 1: I got the new APIs.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah, exactly.
You can test Service Worker.
You can test--
SPEAKER 3: Does
it stay up to date
with each version of Chrome?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah, exactly.
SPEAKER 3: Oh, excellent.
ERIC BIDELMAN: So
it's just Chrome,
but you throw on a command
line flag, dash-dash headless.
And you don't see
Chrome, but you can still
do everything it does.
So it's kind of cool because
we can, yeah, finally
test service worker.
We can write an app that uses
modules, and we can test that.
SPEAKER 1: So how
do I control it?
If it's Chrome headless,
there's no window.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah, exactly.
So this is where
Puppeteer comes in.
SPEAKER 3: Oh.
SPEAKER 1: Oh.
ERIC BIDELMAN: So Puppeteer
is a library that we created.
It's a node library.
You can get it off npm.
It bundles Chrome,
so you don't have
to worry about getting
that or anything.
And you can basically just
use these high-level APIs,
control Chrome, do everything
that DevTools can do.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, so you're
using the Dev Tools
protocol under the hood?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
Yeah.
So the protocol is crazy big,
as you guys probably know,
and it's very complex.
There's a lot of
stuff you can do.
It's not immediately obvious
how to put things together
sometimes.
SPEAKER 3: Can
you do multi-touch
through the protocol?
ERIC BIDELMAN: You can do touch.
I think-- we are personally
working on multi-touch.
SPEAKER 3: OK.
ERIC BIDELMAN: We
have keyboard input,
we have touch, barebone
stuff right now.
But as the days go
on, the engineers
will add more stuff, for sure.
SPEAKER 1: All right.
All right.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
But, yeah, anything DevTools
can do, you can do in Puppeteer.
SPEAKER 3: That's really
important, as well.
It's great to see having that
API to send out input events
exactly the way that it
would occur if the user--
SPEAKER 1: Because in
JavaScript, you can't.
If you're like, dispatch
event yourself--
SPEAKER 3: It's different.
SPEAKER 1: It's different.
SPEAKER 3: It's
slightly different.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Exactly.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, it can
screw you over really bad.
SPEAKER 3: Right, exactly.
So that's why it's
so important to be
doing this stuff for real.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Well,
it's cool, too,
because DevTools has features
like emulation and code
coverage, and all these really
powerful things they're adding.
Now we can tap into that.
And you can write scripts
that analyze your site
in a different way or something,
that DevTools might not
be able to do now.
SPEAKER 1: I hadn't
even thought of that.
Is coverage already
exposed in Puppeteer?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Coverage
is exposed in Puppeteer.
Tracing's exposed.
SPEAKER 1: Because that's
also good for a CI,
where you're like, yo--
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah, exactly.
SPEAKER 1: --you
have unused CSS--
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: --or
something, you know?
ERIC BIDELMAN: So I'm
showing some cool demos.
Because I was like,
man, DevTools is cool,
but we can be even
cooler than the DevTools.
SPEAKER 1: By the
way, we're totally
going to link to both of your
talks in the description.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
Nice.
SPEAKER 1: So what is
the biggest upcoming
thing in Puppeteer you're
looking forward to?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Biggest
upcoming thing.
So we just-- we're working
on more touch stuff,
just making sure the employee
APIs are really good.
We're working on being able
to test your end-to-end kind
of PWA story.
So does my app
fully work offline?
Am I missing something
from the cache?
Being able to do things like
turn on and off notifications,
go through the
end-to-end stories.
SPEAKER 1: So many
things I never thought
about they would be testing.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah, I know.
Well, you can test your UI.
You can test whatever you want.
Yeah.
SPEAKER 3: Yeah.
Are notifications
part of that, as well,
so you can actually access
headless notifications, too?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Eventually, yeah.
SPEAKER 3: Oh, eventually, OK.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
So some of these, they need
to add different layers.
And this would be at the
DevTools protocol layer.
Screen casting is another
big feature request.
People want to be able
to take videos of what's
going on on the screen.
SPEAKER 1: So it's
headless, but it still
gets rendered to a video?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
It's-- you know.
SPEAKER 3: It's just like,
Command-H, hide the window.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah, exactly.
SPEAKER 3: Is that how
you implemented it?
ERIC BIDELMAN: It's a trick.
It's a trick.
SPEAKER 3: Oh, excellent.
SPEAKER 1: It's outsourced.
Some person somewhere
goes, like--
[LAUGHTER]
ERIC BIDELMAN: I think
on Mac, actually,
sometimes you actually see
the Chrome logo come up as it
starts to boot up
Chrome, but it's--
SPEAKER 3: And then it hides it.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah,
they're hiding it.
SPEAKER 3: Oh.
So what we're hearing
is massive hack.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Massive hack.
SPEAKER 3: Right.
All that engineering work--
ERIC BIDELMAN: It's all
Chrome with it's beautiful--
SPEAKER 3: Old tricks.
SPEAKER 1: From
experience, I can
say that the upset is used--
I used to set up testing
on Travis or whatever,
and then you'd have
this whole dance
of installing the x
framebuffer server,
and starting Chrome with
that framebuffer device.
And that's not
necessary anymore.
You legit can just start
it without an actual UI.
ERIC BIDELMAN: We were actually
doing that at Lighthouse
for a while, doing our
unit tests on Travis.
And you had to
install that stuff.
And instead, we-- as soon as
Headless Chrome comes around,
you can add that flag and
everything gets a lot easier.
[MUMBLING]
SPEAKER 3: Which order
are we doing this?
SPEAKER 1: [MUMBLING]
SPEAKER 3: [MUMBLING]
So did you want to
do this in English?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
ERIC BIDELMAN: We'd
prefer it if we could.
SPEAKER 3: Because we were going
to explain it in our own words.
[LAUGHTER]
ERIC BIDELMAN: We'll catch on.
We're fast learners.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 3: OK.